---
layout: post
title: Project-- This Website!
date: 2018-02-23 14:34:00
categories: ruby
short_description: This post covers the creation of my website
---
So I guess I should start out by saying that I'm allergic to front-end.  I don't know why.  I have some experience with it.  I've set up a website with rails, bootstrap, an D3 for a class project.  I've worked with JS, bootstrap, and VisJS for my internship project.  But I just haven't gotten used to it yet.  Maybe with more practice I'll get better, but as with anything: the areas where you need the most work are the areas that you're the least likely to gravitate to.

I started this website off as just straight HTML files.  I figured I didn't really want to bother learning Jekyll conventions and it wasn't worth it anyway considering I wasn't going to have some big sprawling website.  Also, as is evident in the current iteration of my website, I wasn't going for any kind of flashy design.  Just something simple that can get the point across.  I was quickly hit with the facts of life though.  Straight HTML meant copy and pasting a whole lot of code and making a whole lot of minute corrections (i.e a navbar is super tedious in straight HTML and CSS).  It also meant that I was limited to my own artistic vision.  After trying for a few days, I scrapped that idea.

Realistically, there weren't too many trials or tribulations I experienced with the HTML website that I can reflect on.  It was just a tedious mess and I knew I needed some kind of environment (which of course meant Jekyll for Github Pages).

Switching over wasn't as painful as I thought I would be.  I pretty much just went to Jekyllthemes.org and picked the simplest one I could find.  I began looking through the source code. The configuration system was new to me, but I quickly understood how the pre-compiled HTML files referenced it.  Really, though, that seemed like the most technical aspect that I encountered.  Like I said before, due to the nature of my website (static, simple, small), there aren't really any design challenges or programming pains that I experienced.  It was all pretty straightforward.  It was just a matter of me putting myself into an unfamiliar environment and learning it.